#present/active 

# Difference between category and instance directories
- In order to differentiate whether something is a category (class) or an instance, one can ask:
	- Is there only one of this thing, or is this thing a group of which members may be a subset of the group?
- For example, there is only one 'United States', whereas if we consider the entity 'country' - there may be a number of different instances, of which the US is a member.
- Notably, categories are never *instances* of anything. Rather, they are defined by criteria.
- If the criteria defining a category are met for a given entity, we might say that the entity is an instance of the category.

# Difference between criteria, property, referent

- a property is a property of a given page/node. For example, if a page has a link to a github repository, there might be a property axon
	- `[property <has> link <to> github repository]`
- a referent is a property of the entity the page references. For example if a page is a note on an interesting github repository about geospatial data collection, there might be referent axon
	- `[referent <is> domain <of> geospatial data collection]`
- Finally a criteria axon is slightly more complex. Namely, it establishes the *criteria* an arbitrary entity would need to meet in order to be a member of the class (category) that is the node with the criteria axon. For example if you had the node [repository], the criteria might be:
	- `[criteria < is > instance > data]`
	- `[criteria < has > attribute > uses version control system]`
	- or some other variant of the above.
		- Note that the criteria will be necessarily imperfect
- The key point is that (ideally) you could take the criteria axons defined in a category node, and state: 
	- "All entities in reality with the criteria defined here are instances of this class"
- with minimal edgecases and/or exceptions

# Tags
- for event
	- past/pres/prox
		- confidence
			- max/med/min

# Edge types
%%
Deprecated
- external.has.author
- external.is.instance (of, implied)
- external.is.subtype (of, implied)
- internal.is.excerpt (from, implied)
- internal.is.note (on, implied)
- internal.has.link (to, implied)
%%

# Rules for relations between basis dir
- stuff in instance directory
	- must have
		- an [is.instance] property
	- can not have
		- any [is.type] properties

# Dealing with polysemy
- When there is a term collision, it's probably sufficient to ignore it in most cases and attach relevant properties and relations on a source node pertaining to both definitions.
	- This could be resolved at a later point with a greater degree of rigor.
- More relevant is when there is a term collision with entities in the `abstract` directory, which is effectively a core directory.
	- Probably this can be addressed by adding a `+` in front of the entities in the `abstract` dir, and perhaps the source ontology as well
		- the latter point is not necessary, just probably a good idea long term for tracing ontological entity sources